README.rst, before:

fideparser
===========

fideparser is a script to parse `FIDE Ratings website`_ and export the data
of the rated tournaments and their arbiters into another formats (currently
csv, json and an internally pickle-based format)

This scripts relies on `screen-scrapping`_ so if FIDE changes the HTML
the script will break :S

I intend to mantain this script, at least once a year to export data of the
previous year, so I will keep an eye on the FIDE site and try to fix the bugs.

Feel free to fork and ask for pull-requests. If you find any issue, use
`the issue tracker in GitHub`_.

Installation
===================

The easiest way run this script is to install it in a ``virtualenv``. So first
install virtualenv_ (for instance, running ``sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv``
in Debian and Ubuntu systems). Then create a virtualenv somewhere in your system::

  $ cd somewhere
  $ virtualenv fideparser

Then, install fideparser in this virtualenv::

  $ cd fideparser
  $ ./bin/easy_install fideparser

If you are upgrading from a previous version of fideparser, run easy_install in
upgrade mode::

  $ ./bin/easy_install -U fideparser

Now you can run the created script::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments -h

This script has been tested with Python 2.7 in a Linux environment.
Windows platform is untested and I have no plans to test it. Patches welcomed.

Dependencies
==============

This script depends on BeautifulSoup4_ an excelent HTML parser used, among other
things, for doing screen-scrapping tasks. The scripts pulls the correct version
of BeautifulSoup4_ so there's no need to do anything on your side to install it.

Use
======

All options are explained in the help, that you can get running this::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments -h

Examples
==========

Export all data from spanish tournaments rated on January 2013 in csv format::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments ESP 2013-01-01 2013-january-spain.csv csv

Export all data from french tournaments rated on July 2013 in binary format::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments FRA 2012-07-01 2012-july.binary binary

Use the previously exported binary file from France, to create a JSON file::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments FRA 2012-07-01 2012-july.json json --datafile 2012-july.binary

Author
========

Mikel Larreategi <larreategi@eibar.org>

FIDE International Arbiter and python developer

.. _`FIDE Ratings website`: http://ratings.fide.com
.. _`screen-scrapping`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_scraping
.. _`the issue tracker in GitHub`: https://github.com/erral/fideparser/issues
.. _virtualenv: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv
.. _BeautifulSoup4: http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/

Commit message:

document merge_csv_file script

README.rst, after:

fideparser
===========

fideparser is a script to parse `FIDE Ratings website`_ and export the data
of the rated tournaments and their arbiters into another formats (currently
csv, json and an internally pickle-based format)

This scripts relies on `screen-scrapping`_ so if FIDE changes the HTML
the script will break :S

I intend to mantain this script, at least once a year to export data of the
previous year, so I will keep an eye on the FIDE site and try to fix the bugs.

Feel free to fork and ask for pull-requests. If you find any issue, use
`the issue tracker in GitHub`_.

Dependencies
==============

This script depends on BeautifulSoup4_ an excelent HTML parser used, among other
things, for doing screen-scrapping tasks. The scripts pulls the correct version
of BeautifulSoup4_ so there's no need to do anything on your side to install it.


Installation
===================

The easiest way run this script is to install it in a ``virtualenv``. So first
install virtualenv_ (for instance, running ``sudo apt-get install python-virtualenv``
in Debian and Ubuntu systems). Then create a virtualenv somewhere in your system::

  $ cd somewhere
  $ virtualenv fideparser

Then, install fideparser in this virtualenv::

  $ cd fideparser
  $ ./bin/easy_install fideparser

If you are upgrading from a previous version of fideparser, run easy_install in
upgrade mode::

  $ ./bin/easy_install -U fideparser

This script has been tested with Python 2.7 in a Linux environment.
Windows platform is untested and I have no plans to test it. Patches welcomed.

Use
======

All options are explained in the help, that you can get running this::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments -h

Examples
==========

Export all data from spanish tournaments rated on January 2013 in csv format::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments ESP 2013-01-01 2013-january-spain.csv csv

Export all data from french tournaments rated on July 2013 in binary format::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments FRA 2012-07-01 2012-july.binary binary

Use the previously exported binary file from France, to create a JSON file::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments FRA 2012-07-01 2012-july.json json --datafile 2012-july.binary

Use the previously exported binary file from France, to create a csv file::

  $ ./bin/export_fide_tournaments FRA 2012-07-01 2012-july.csv csv --datafile 2012-july.binary


A script for merging CSV files is also provided, usefull to merge files generated
by export_fide_tournaments script. It can be used as follows::

  $ ./bin/merge_csv_files outfile.csv 2013-january-spain.csv 2012-july.csv

Author
========

Mikel Larreategi <larreategi@eibar.org>

FIDE International Arbiter and python developer

.. _`FIDE Ratings website`: http://ratings.fide.com
.. _`screen-scrapping`: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_scraping
.. _`the issue tracker in GitHub`: https://github.com/erral/fideparser/issues
.. _virtualenv: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/virtualenv
.. _BeautifulSoup4: http://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/
